there's one reason you clicked on this
video and it's probably because you want
to get to your splits but i don't know
maybe it's because you like me
i have two studies linked in the
description if you want to check them
out number one the first one says that
you need a bare minimum of five minutes
per stretch that you hold
every single week what that means is if
you are planning on holding this stretch
for instance and you wanted to get
better at this stretch you're gonna have
to hold it for five minutes a week but
thank god you don't have to do it all at
once just break it up into 30 second
sets if you do the math that's 10 times
that you need to hold that stretch for
30 seconds so if you stretch five days a
week you only need to do two sets but i
don't really have the time to do that i
mean who really does in this economy so
i stretch around three days a week and i
break it up into three 30 second sets
you can choose whatever is best for you
because i'm only going to show one set
and you can either re-watch the last
portion of the video so that you can get
your second set in or just do it by
memory whatever works for you but first
let's warm up yeah this is the part
where you stand up and clear a little
square of space for yourself so you can
at least do the warm up and you'll feel
better promise
you ready did you pause it did you play
it let's go hip rotations ten of these
here we go that's one
and two
and three
four
five
six there you go seven
eight
nine
and ten and let's do the other side here
we go
and one
focus on a large range of motion
three
and four
five
six halfway seven
eight
nine
ten
why did i say halfway when i was at six
math is not my strong suit so let's go
to the next one all you're gonna do is
split your legs apart
not to an uncomfortable stretch but just
enough so that your back leg bends like
this
and all you're going to do is straighten
that back leg all the way out you're
flexing the quad stretching the hip
flexor don't let your back bend all the
way like this we're avoiding that
and then relax it back down that was one
and go
and relax two good
flex
and relax three and stretch
and relax four good and stretch
relax for five we're only doing eight
stretch
and six good last two times seven
and relax
eight
and come out of that stretch
you should already feel it pretty warm
in your legs already even though we've
only done barely anything here we go go
ahead and bring that back leg back
straighten it all the way out
and relax for one good
and out
relax for two
and stretch
that's three good
and four
relax here we go stretch it out for five
relax we have three more and six
relax good and seven really flexing
relax last time and eight and relax go
ahead and shake those legs out you
should be already super super warm and
ready to go now here comes my favorite
part the actual stretching part but
before we start there's a rule i want
you to know there's something called the
principle of specificity
and it states that if you want to get
better at something you have to practice
doing that thing so we're basically just
going to do our splits as our stretching
routine but don't worry i'll show you
how you can best do it we're going to
start with our middle split but if
you're pretty tight you're going to want
a counter or a table or something to
hold you up you're just going to drop
down to wherever you're comfortable if
this is where you're at perfect you're
just going to hold it right here and you
can lean against it just like so feel
that stretch if you're a little more
advanced you're going to want to have a
chair and you'll drop down and hold it
wherever you can right there but here's
our first note if you're getting down to
the chair level and you're starting to
feel hip pain we want to avoid that so
i'm going to give you a quick little tip
on the ground instead of having your toe
and knee point forward as you go out
what you're going to do is
bing rotate out to the side and that
should help you out all we're doing is
avoiding the top of your femur hitting
your pelvis
doesn't sound very fun does it and if
you're super super duper advanced you're
just going to grab some pillows and
you'll sit on them just like so and one
last note we never stretch into pain
avoid pain at all costs the literature
is conflicting on this topic on whether
you should go super super intense or
super super light but some studies have
shown that lighter intensity at around
60 percent intensity is perfect for
building flexibility gain so that's what
we'll stick to avoid pain here we go
starting with our middle split use the
counter chair or whatever method you are
going to use i'm going to use the
pillows just drop down into it and hold
breathing deeply if you'd like to
introduce some movement into it some
light side to side movement you can just
kind of helps but your goal is to relax
relax as much as possible
if you feel that you can slightly sink a
little bit deeper into the stretch
go for it remember still avoiding pain
pain bad relax good and five
four
three
two
one and zero
great job
oh
i forgot to tell you
you might feel a little bit jello-ish
so that's set number one down and we're
gonna do set number one of our front
split so it's the same exact process you
use a counter or a table go to wherever
you can and hold if you're a little more
advanced you may be using a chair
and for the most advanced peeps
a little stack of pillows is perfect so
here we go find your stretch and hold
and another round
of 30 seconds
people always ask me why i am wearing
mismatched socks
and it's because i can't be bothered to
pair them in the laundry
also my now wife at the time in high
school
she was the one that got me into it
she always wore mismatched socks and i
was like oh it would be cool so i'm a
poser
five
four
three
two
one
and bring yourself out of that stretch
as safely as possible and let's go to
the other side same thing here we go
go ahead and sink yourself down into
that stretch
holding and
breathing
relaxing into that stretch
your goal is to feel the stretch in the
hip flexor and the hamstring
so the hip flexor the back leg hamstring
in the front leg probably should have
said that first but that's okay one side
is usually tighter than the other for me
it's this side by the way
three
two
one and relax yourself out of that
stretch oh
oh my goodness your legs should feel
pretty jello-ish right now so again if
you're doing this stretching routine
five days a week monday to friday you
just need to do those split practices
twice after you do that one warm-up
however if you're doing it three days a
week you're going to want to do it three
times three sets of 30 seconds pause the
video and rest for 30 seconds or up to a
minute
take a drink of water comment letting me
know what type of stretching routine or
video or anything that you guys want in
the comments and as always stay flexi
this is
what we call
a horrendous
terrible no good idea